p8105_hw1_nrl2142
================
2025-09-14

## Problem 1

``` r
library(tidyverse)
library(moderndive)
```

``` r
data("early_january_weather")
```

## Short Description of the Dataset

This dataset contains 358 rows and 15 columns. There are 15 variables in
this dataset which are: **origin**: site where weather was recorded.
**year, month, day, hour, time_hour**: date and time information for
each observation. **temp**: temperature in Farenheit. **humid**:
humidity (percentage). **wind_dir**: wind direction in degrees.
**wind_speed**: wind speed in mph. **wind_gust**: maximum wind gust in
mph. **precip**: precipitation in inches. **pressure**: atmospheric
pressure in millibars. **visib**: visibility in miles. The mean
temperature is 39.5821229 farenheit.

## Making a Scatterplot

``` r
ggplot(early_january_weather,
       aes(x = time_hour, y = temp, color = humid)) +
  geom_point() +
  labs(
    title = "Temperature vs Time (colored by Humidity) in Janaury 2013",
    x = "Time (hourly)",
    y = "Temperature (Farenheit)",
    color = "Humidity (%)"
  )
```

![](p8105_hw1_nrl2142_files/figure-gfm/unnamed-chunk-3-1.png)<!-- -->

## Description of Scatterplot

There isn’t a clear linear relationship between temperature and humidity
from the scatterplot. However, lower temperatures are often associated
with lower humidity levels as represented by the darker colors in the
scatterplot.

## Export the Scatterplot

``` r
ggsave(filename = "temp_vs_time_scatter.png")
```

    ## Saving 7 x 5 in image

## Problem 2

## Creating the Dataframe

``` r
num <- rnorm(10)
logical <- num > 0
color <- c("yellow","blue","green","yellow","red","blue","purple","green","yellow","red")
tier <- factor(c("low","med","high","low","med","high","low","med","high","low"),levels = c("low,","med","high"))

df <- tibble(num = num, logical = logical, color = color, tier = tier)
```

## Trying to take the means of each variable

``` r
mean(pull(df,num))
```

    ## [1] 0.07462564

``` r
mean(pull(df, logical))
```

    ## [1] 0.5

``` r
mean(pull(df,color))
```

    ## [1] NA

``` r
mean(pull(df,tier))
```

    ## [1] NA

## Writeup

Character variable `color` and factor variable `tier` gives errors when
trying to take the mean. However, numeric mean 0.0746256 and logical
mean 0.5 works.

## Trying coercion with `as.numeric()`

``` r
as.numeric(df$logical)
as.numeric(df$color)
as.numeric(df$tier)
as.numeric(df$color)
```

## What happens and why? Is the mean still meaningful?

Character variables produce NA and gives a warning message. This is
because “yellow” does not have a numeric representation so R can’t turn
it into a number. Factor variables work because they are assigned
integer codes (1,2,3) and the mean just ends up being the average code.
Taking the means of these codes will no have real meaning in the context
of categories unless if it is being used to describe severity. In R,
TRUE is internally stored as 1 and FALSE as 0 so coercing to numeric
will just reveal this encoding. Taking the mean is still meaningful as
the mean of the logical vector will still give us the proportion of TRUE
values.
